 Note:  The weights shown below are the maximum allowed for this step in our laboratory as the diazotisation is difficult to control.  It is essential that the temperature is maintained below 0°C while adding NaNO2 to H2SO4.
The nitro aniline (175 g, 1.15 mol) was dissolved in hot glacial acetic acid (1.45 L) in a 5 L, three-neck round-bottom flask, fitted with an overhead stirrer.  This was cooled to 15°C in an acetone/dry ice bath (plastic washing up basin).  Meanwhile sodium nitrite (115.7 g, 1.68 mol) was slowly added to conc. H2SO4 (600 ml) which was kept almost freezing in an acetone / dry ice bath, making sure that no NO2 evolved (brown colour).  The solution had a paste-like consistency and a greyish colour. (In the past we heated the solution gently. We have recently found this to be unnecessary but I include the details in case it is required in some cases.  The heat source was removed as the temperature reached about 40°C as the temperature will rise to about 80°C very rapidly.  The mixture was quickly placed in a cold bath to prevent NO2 being evolved).  Overall, this procedure was more safely performed by two people, one adding portions of NaNO2 and the other stirring the solution rapidly with a glass rod.  This prevented local heating and formation of NaNO2.  While maintaining the nitroaniline solution below 25°C (very important) the NaNO2 / H2SO4 solution was added drop-wise.  The solution was too viscous to add via a dropping funnel so it was poured into the open vessel.  During this process the unreacted nitroaniline formed a solid block on the surface of the glass.  This was mechanically broken up using a long spatula.  This allowed it to react to completion.  The solution was stirred for a further 90 min.  The solution was then poured into a plastic bucket (10-20 L) containing 3 L water.  Urea 115.5 g, 1.92 mol) was added portion-wise to prevent too much heating. Gas evolved ar this stage, presumably CO2.  A potassium iodide solution (279 g, 1.68 mol) in 1 L water was added. (This must be added as a solution.   At this stage more gas is evolved, presumably N2 is evolved so a fume hood should be on maximum.  Sodium hydrogen sulphite (102 g, 1.15 mol) was added in portions to remove excess iodine.  Again some heating occurred.  A yellow precipitate formed.  This was filtered on a buchner funnel and washed with water until no yellow colour persisted in the washings.  The crude iodotoluene was then dissolved in 500 ml DCM and the residual water separated.  Further washing is optional.  The DCM solution was dried over MgSO4 and the solvent removed.  Crude yield 85-95%.  TLC in hexane:ethyl acetate (2:1) showed the purity.  If necessary the product can be recrystallised from methanol. 

