An oven-dried one liter three-neck flask was equipped with a mechanical stirrer, heating mantle, dropping funnel, nitrogen inlet, Friedrich water condenser and calcium chloride drying tube. The flask was charged with 0.1 g of mercuric chloride, 24 g (1 mol) of magnesium turnings, 200 ml of dry diethyl ether and 1 g distilled propargyl bromide. The mixture was stirred, then gently warmed, until reaction commenced, as evidenced by vigorous ether reflux. The flask was then immersed in a dry ice/acetone bath maintained at approximately -20 оC. A solution of 46 g distilled propargyl bromide (0.40 mol) in 150 ml dry ether was then added drop-wise, with vigorous stirring, over a three hour period. The bath was maintained at approximately -20 оC. After the addition was complete, a solution of 26 g freshly distilled benzaldehyde (0.25 mol) in 150 ml of dry diethyl ether was added drop-wise over two hours, while maintaining bath temperatures of -10 to 0 оC. The mixture was allowed to come to room temperature and  the contents of the flask were poured into a two liter beaker containing a well mixed slurry of ~ 500g crushed ice and ~ 500 g ammonium chloride. The mixture was stirred manually with the  mechanical stirrer until two clear layers were present, and all excess magnesium chips and salts had dissolved. The upper ether layer was separated  in a separatory funnel and the aqueous layer extracted twice in the separatory funnel with 50 ml ether portions. The combined ether layers were shaken twice with 25 ml deionized water portions and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. Evaporation of the ether on a steam bath in a fume hood yielded a light yellow oil. Careful fractionation of the crude material in an oil bath under pump vacuum pressure (0.1 mm, ~ 110°C bath temperature), yielded 28 g of product (77% based on the amount of benzaldehyde used), which gave only a single G.C. peak], and which contained no isomeric internal acetylenic or allenic alcohols. The distilled material showed only one peak on both SE-30 and Triton-X-305 columns. Infrared spectra showed  no trace of a characteristic strong  allenic stretch at ~1950 cm-1 and proton n.m.r.  was devoid of peaks due to internal acetylenic and allenic products.